- [Instructor] Another common creation pattern
is the so-called builder pattern.
Now in Spring, you will see that this pattern
is used in various places throughout the framework.
One of the most common ones that I use
is the ResultActions, which is part of the MockMvc structure
used for testing web applications and web services
within the Spring framework.
One thing I want to notice,
even though it's not really in Spring,
is that Lombok actually has taken this builder pattern
to a whole new level by providing you an annotation
that does all the work that we're about to do
in the next video based on a simple annotation,
and it's really a time saver.
If you haven't looked at Lombok,
I highly encourage you to do so.
So let's take a look at the pattern as it exists
in a nutshell.
So each method returns the object reference it's called from
in the builder pattern.
The build method, which is usually the end of the chain,
returns a fully constructed object
based on all the intermediate calls
that return that object reference.
Now functionality can be combined into a single class,
but usually it's not done that way,
since it often requires the use of statics,
and when we go through and do our implementation,
we're going to break it into two classes,
which is more of a traditional way of doing a builder.
So why would we use a builder pattern?
It's very useful when object creation has many parameters.
And it becomes increasingly more useful
when some or even all of those parameters are optional.
And we're going to see an example of using optional parameters
in a constructor and how ugly it gets
with nulls mixed all and throughout the construction phase.
It can make code easier to read
when you use the builder pattern,
Because of the reduced lines of code for object construction
as opposed to using setters and it's easier to read
because you don't have all of the null values
littered throughout the optional constructor.
So how would we go about building a class
that leverages the builder pattern?
First and foremost, you need to define a base class
with an all arcs constructor.
Then, you will create a builder class
with attributes and setter
for each argument of the base class.
Each setter should also then return the builder
as opposed to the traditional way that a setter works,
where it returns void.
Then, you will create a build method
that will construct and return the base class.
And now I'm going to show you how to do that
in our in-action video.